captains_log/log_2021_11_14.md, before:

# log_2021_11_14

Added the models for the run and the splits today. Initialized the run_stats app. Hooray, progress!

Now that I've got some simple classes set up, I should be able to write the necessary views and templates to interact with them.

We'll need a view for each operation - Create, Update, Delete. Views will handle the backend logic of our system, as well as dictate which templates to return to the user's browser.

Templates are the html templates which we will use to display information to the user, along with handling conditional rendering logic (which we will get to when we implement a simple authentication system.

Note that this is similar to, but not an implementation of, the [MVC pattern](https://djangobook.com/mdj2-django-structure/).

So, we will need three views for our runs:
- create_run()
- update_run(run_id)
- delete_run(run_id)

and three views for our splits:
- create_split()
- update_split()
- delete_split()

Of course before I can interact with the views, I need to migrate that database!

```
python3 manage.py makemigrations run_stats
```

which will output

```
No installed app with label 'run_stats'.
```

Exactly what I expected.

I'll to add this to my INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py. Turns out I needed to
define the max_digits attribute for average_speed and distance fields on run.

now the output is

```
Migrations for 'run_stats':
  run_stats/migrations/0001_initial.py
    - Create model Run
    - Create model Split
```

Success!

Commit message:

adds superuser, registers models w/ admin site, fixes models

captains_log/log_2021_11_14.md, after:

# log_2021_11_14

Added the models for the run and the splits today. Initialized the run_stats app. Hooray, progress!

Now that I've got some simple classes set up, I should be able to write the necessary views and templates to interact with them.

We'll need a view for each operation - Create, Update, Delete. Views will handle the backend logic of our system, as well as dictate which templates to return to the user's browser.

Templates are the html templates which we will use to display information to the user, along with handling conditional rendering logic (which we will get to when we implement a simple authentication system.

Note that this is similar to, but not an implementation of, the [MVC pattern](https://djangobook.com/mdj2-django-structure/).

So, we will need three views for our runs:
- create_run()
- update_run(run_id)
- delete_run(run_id)

and three views for our splits:
- create_split()
- update_split()
- delete_split()

Of course before I can interact with the views, I need to migrate that database!

```
python3 manage.py makemigrations run_stats
```

which will output

```
No installed app with label 'run_stats'.
```

Exactly what I expected.

I'll to add this to my INSTALLED_APPS in settings.py. Turns out I needed to
define the max_digits attribute for average_speed and distance fields on run.

now the output is

```
Migrations for 'run_stats':
  run_stats/migrations/0001_initial.py
    - Create model Run
    - Create model Split
```

And to apply the migrations after making them, run

```
python3 manage.py migrate
```

which outputs

```
Operations to perform:
  Apply all migrations: admin, auth, contenttypes, run_stats, sessions
Running migrations:
  Applying run_stats.0001_initial... OK

```

Success!
